# Permission Service

The permisson service is a service and a libary for OpenSlides4 that tells, if a
user can see specific content.

## Build and run

### With Golang

```
go build ./cmd/permission/ && ./permission
```


### With Docker

The docker build uses the datastore-reader-service as default. Either configure
it to use the fake services (see environment variables below) or make sure the
service inside the docker container can connect to the datastore-reader. For
example with the docker argument --network host.

```
docker build . --tag openslides-permission
docker run --network host openslides-permission
```


### With Auto Restart

To restart the service when ever a source file has shanged, the tool
[CompileDaemon](https://github.com/githubnemo/CompileDaemon) can help.

```
go get github.com/githubnemo/CompileDaemon
CompileDaemon -log-prefix=false -build "go build ./cmd/permission" -command "./permission"
```

The make target `build-dev` creates a docker image that uses this tool:

```
make build-dev
docker run -v $(pwd)/cert:/root/cert --network host openslides-permission-dev
```


## Example Request

```
curl http://localhost:9005/internal/permission/is_allowed -d '{"name":"topic.create","user_id":1}'
```


## Test

### Only Business Logic

The business logic are the cases, when the permission case should return true or
false or restrict some fqfields.

To test only the to business logic run:

```
tests/run.sh
```

If a test case fails, a message like:

```
FAIL: TestCases/motion/create.yml:create_amentment_with_wrong_perm (0.00s)
```

is shown. To test only this case, run:

```
tests/run.sh TestCases/motion/create.yml:create_amentment_with_wrong_perm
```

To see the coverage for all business logic in the browser, run:

```
make cover
```

### With Golang

```
go test ./...
```


### With Make

There is a make target, that creates and runs the docker-test-container:

```
make run-tests
```


## Autogen actions

There are some permission routes, that are autogenerated. The list of these
simple routes are fetched from the backend service.

When the list of these routes chances, the code has to be updated with

```
go generate ./...
```


## Environment Variables

* `PERMISSION_HOST`: Host where the http service listens to. Default is an empty
  string which means all devices.
* `PERMISSION_PORT`: Port where the http services listens to. Default is 9005.
* `DATASTORE`: Sets the datastore service. `fake` (default) or `service`.
* `DATASTORE_READER_HOST`: Host of the datastore reader. The default is
  `localhost`.
* `DATASTORE_READER_PORT`: Port of the datastore reader. The default is `9010`.
* `DATASTORE_READER_PROTOCOL`: Protocol of the datastore reader. The default is
  `http`.